The Perl Foundation has been busy in the past few months. ÊWe have received a record amount of contributions, handed out thousands of dollars in grants, aided numerous conferences, workshops, and hack-a-thons and honored hard-working members of the Perl community.
On May 14, 2008, The Perl Foundation received a philanthropic donation of US$200,000 from Ian Hague. Mr. Hague is a co-founder of Firebird Management LLC, a financial fund management company based in New York City. This donation was the result of extensive discussions between Mr. Hague, The Perl Foundation, and a Perl community member who wishes to remain anonymous.
Of this extremely generous donation, roughly half of the money will be used to fund Perl 6 related projects. These projects are intended to advance the release date of a Perl 6 implementation. ÊThe other half will be used to develop the capabilities of the Perl Foundation and to help us in our fundraising efforts.
These earmarked funds have already been put to use with the granting of $2,500 to Daniel Ruoso for his 'Simple Meta Object Programming' project. ÊThis project offers to deliver an alternative implementation of Perl 6.
Other grants that The Perl Foundation have recently funded include ' Test::Builder 2' and ' Make localtime() and gmtime() Work Past 2038' by Michael Schwern, 'Fixing Bugs in the Archive::Zip Perl Module' by Alan Haggai Alavi, and the exciting 'Perl on a Stick' project by by Adam Kennedy.
Perl on a Stick is a Windows compilation of Perl packaged with crucial modules and intended to be executed from removable media on any modern Microsoft Windows system. ÊThis project was recently featured at O'Reilly's Open Source Conference and at YAPC::EU 2008.
The Perl Foundation is also wrapping up its involvement with Google's Summer of Code. ÊFive of the projects accepted by Google and TPF were successfully completed and their results have already made an effect in the Perl world.
'Flesh out the Perl 6 Test Suite' was one of the successful projects. This project was developed by Adrian Kreher and mentored by Moritz Lenz and resulted in over 700 tests being added to the Perl 6 test suite.
Another successful project was 'wxCPANPLUS' developed by Samuel Tyler and mentored by Herbert Breunung and Jos Boumans. ÊThis project aimed to create a graphical user interface for the CPANPLUS Perl module, written in wxPerl, including many of the functions available on the CPAN web site and Randy Kobe's Search.
The third successful project was 'Native Call Interface Signatures and Stubs Generation for Parrot' Êdeveloped by Kevin Tew and mentored by Jerry Gay. ÊThis project created NCI Signatures and Stubs Generation using Parrots c99 parser.
The fourth project was the 'Incremental Tricolor Garbage Collector' developed by Andrew Whitworth and mentored by chromatic. ÊThis projected intended to replace the "Mark and Sweep" garbage collector in Parrot with a new and more efficient garbage collector.
The final project was the 'Math::GSL' project developed by Thierry Moisan and mentored by Jonathan Leto that aimed to create a Perl interface to the GNU Scientific Library.
Congratulations to all of the students and thanks to all of the mentors and to Google for making the Summer of Code a success once again. ÊThe Perl Foundation is already prepping for next year in order to make the program easy for students and beneficial to the Perl community.
Perl had a huge presence at O'Reilly's OSCON 2008. ÊAs usual, O'Reilly were great hosts and provided the Perl community with ample speaking slots and with additional time and space for Larry Wall to deliver the State of the Onion address and for The Perl Foundation to award the White Camel awards.
The White Camel award is intended to honor those who make noteworthy and ongoing non-technical contributions in benefit of the Perl community. ÊThis year's winners are Jacinta Richardson, Tatsuhiko Miyagawa, and Gabor Szabo. ÊAll of the awardees have hosted multiple Perl events and have supported the community in their own ways. Congratulations to all of the White Camel winners.
The next few months look to be an exciting time for The Perl Foundation. Ê Keep up with all that is happening at news.perlfoundation.org.